README.md, before:

# FutureTDM
All Materials of the participation in the [FutureTDM project](http://futuretdm.eu/).

All materials worked out in this repository where conducted within the EU Horizon2020 project **Future TDM - The Future of Text and Data Mining**, an EU Horizon2020 research project with participation of Open Knowledge International and ContentMine. 

<a href="http://futuretdm.eu/" title=""><img src="/assets/images/logo-futuretdm.png" alt="FutureTDM" height=50 /></a> <a href="http://contentmine.org" title=""><img src="/assets/images/logo-contentmine.png" alt="ContentMine" height=50 /></a> <a href="http://okfn.org/" title="Open Knowledge International"><img src="/assets/images/logo-okf.png" alt="Open Knowledge International" height=50 /></a>

The main outcomes are:
- 3 tutorials about specific use-cases of text data mining techniques
- workshop
- presentation of the outcomes at 2 conferences 

All content and data is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). All code is under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

<img src="/assets/images/logo-ccby.png" alt="Creative Commons by" width=100 />

## TUTORIALS

**Used Software**

[Content Mine Virtual Machine (05/2016)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7pJKedx9b97LTBVRmEzbzJOVlU) with: 
- [getpapers](https://github.com/ContentMine/getpapers) (0.4.5), [norma](https://github.com/ContentMine/norma) (0.2.26) and [ami](https://github.com/ContentMine/ami) (0.2.24)
- [Python3](https://www.python.org/) (3.2.3) and [IPython](http://ipython.org/) (4.1.1).
- [pyCProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/pyCProject) (v.)

### Preparation
- [Install the Virtual Machine and download VM-Image (05/2016)](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/vms)
- Run through the tutorials of [getpapers](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/cproject), [norma](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/norma) and [ami](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/ami).
- get a basic understanding of what a [CProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/cproject) and [Scholarly HTML](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/sHTML) is.

### Zika
Download all openly accessible papers about Zika via getpapers and analyse for co-occurrences of clinical trial ID's and spatial entities.

**Go to the [Zika Tutorial](tutorial/zika).**

### Statistics

**Go to the [Statistics Tutorial](tutorial/statistics) (soon to come...).**

### Libraries

**Go to the [Libraries Tutorial](tutorial/libraries) (soon to come...).**

## WORKSHOP
tba

## CONFERENCES

- [FutureTDM Workshop II](http://www.futuretdm.eu/knowledge-cafes/futuretdm-workshop-2/): 29th of March 2017 @ Brussels, Belgieum
- FutureTDM final conference: 12th + 13th of June 2017 @ Salzburg, Austria

## COPYRIGHT

All content is openly licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license, unless otherwisely stated.

All sourcecode is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License. Visit [http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) to learn more about the MIT License.

## CONTRIBUTION
In the spirit of free software, everyone is encouraged to help improve the content created and curated here.

Here are some ways you can contribute:

- by reporting bugs
- by suggesting new sections
- by translating to a new language
- by writing or editing documentation
- by analyzing the data
- by visualizing the data
- by writing code (**no pull request is too small**: fix typos in the user interface, add code comments, clean up inconsistent whitespace)
- by refactoring code
- by closing issues
- by reviewing pull requests
- by enriching the data with other data sources

When you are ready, submit a [pull request](https://github.com/ContentMine/FutureTDM/pulls).

#### Submitting an Issue

We use the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/ContentMine/FutureTDM/issues) to track bugs and features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request, check to make sure it hasn't already been submitted. When submitting a bug report, please try to provide a screenshot that demonstrates the problem. 

## RESSOURCES

- [ContentMine](http://contentmine.org/)
- [FutureTDM](http://futuretdm.eu/)
- [Open Knowledge International](http://okfn.org/)

**Further Materials**
- [Materials](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources): Software tutorials, training guidelines and trainign modules for ContentMine.
- [pyCProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/pyCProject): Python wrapper for CProject. 
- [Dictionaries](https://github.com/ContentMine/dictionaries)
- [Discourse](http://discuss.contentmine.org/)

Commit message:

minor updates to the tutorials and README.md

README.md, after:

# FutureTDM
All materials of the involvement in the [FutureTDM project](http://futuretdm.eu/).

All materials worked out in this repository where conducted within the EU Horizon2020 project **Future TDM - The Future of Text and Data Mining**, an EU Horizon2020 research project with participation of Open Knowledge International and ContentMine. 

<a href="http://futuretdm.eu/" title=""><img src="/assets/images/logo-futuretdm.png" alt="FutureTDM" height=50 /></a> <a href="http://contentmine.org" title=""><img src="/assets/images/logo-contentmine.png" alt="ContentMine" height=50 /></a> <a href="http://okfn.org/" title="Open Knowledge International"><img src="/assets/images/logo-okf.png" alt="Open Knowledge International" height=50 /></a>

The main outcomes are:
- 3 tutorials about specific use-cases of text data mining techniques
- workshop
- presentation of the outcomes at 2 conferences 

All content and data is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). All code is under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

<img src="/assets/images/logo-ccby.png" alt="Creative Commons by" width=100 />

## TUTORIALS

**Used Software**

[Content Mine Virtual Machine (05/2016)](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7pJKedx9b97LTBVRmEzbzJOVlU) with: 
- [getpapers](https://github.com/ContentMine/getpapers) (0.4.5), [norma](https://github.com/ContentMine/norma) (0.2.26) and [ami](https://github.com/ContentMine/ami) (0.2.24)
- [Python3](https://www.python.org/) (3.2.3) and [IPython](http://ipython.org/) (4.1.1).
- [pyCProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/pyCProject) (v.)

### Preparation
- [Install the Virtual Machine and download VM-Image (05/2016)](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/vms)
- Run through the tutorials of [getpapers](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/cproject), [norma](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/norma) and [ami](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/ami).
- get a basic understanding of what a [CProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/cproject) and [Scholarly HTML](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources/tree/master/software-tutorials/sHTML) is.

### Zika
Download all openly accessible papers about Zika via getpapers and analyse for co-occurrences of clinical trial ID's and spatial entities.

**Go to the [Zika Tutorial](tutorial/zika).**

### Statistics

**Go to the [Statistics Tutorial](tutorial/statistics) (soon to come...).**

### Libraries

**Go to the [Libraries Tutorial](tutorial/libraries) (soon to come...).**

## WORKSHOP
tba

## CONFERENCES

- [FutureTDM Workshop II](http://www.futuretdm.eu/knowledge-cafes/futuretdm-workshop-2/): 29th of March 2017 @ Brussels, Belgieum
- FutureTDM final conference: 12th + 13th of June 2017 @ Salzburg, Austria

## COPYRIGHT

All content is openly licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license, unless otherwisely stated.

All sourcecode is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License. Visit [http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) to learn more about the MIT License.

## CONTRIBUTION
In the spirit of free software, everyone is encouraged to help improve the content created and curated here.

Here are some ways you can contribute:

- by reporting bugs
- by suggesting new sections
- by translating to a new language
- by writing or editing documentation
- by analyzing the data
- by visualizing the data
- by writing code (**no pull request is too small**: fix typos in the user interface, add code comments, clean up inconsistent whitespace)
- by refactoring code
- by closing issues
- by reviewing pull requests
- by enriching the data with other data sources

When you are ready, submit a [pull request](https://github.com/ContentMine/FutureTDM/pulls).

#### Submitting an Issue

We use the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/ContentMine/FutureTDM/issues) to track bugs and features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request, check to make sure it hasn't already been submitted. When submitting a bug report, please try to provide a screenshot that demonstrates the problem. 

## RESSOURCES

- [ContentMine](http://contentmine.org/)
- [FutureTDM](http://futuretdm.eu/)
- [Open Knowledge International](http://okfn.org/)

**FutureTDM**
- Tutorials
	- [Zika](tutorial/zika)
	- [Statistics](tutorial/statistics)
	- [Libraries](tutorial/libraries)

**ContentMine**
- [Materials](https://github.com/ContentMine/workshop-resources): Software tutorials, training guidelines and trainign modules for ContentMine.
- [pyCProject](https://github.com/ContentMine/pyCProject): Python wrapper for CProject. 
- [Dictionaries](https://github.com/ContentMine/dictionaries)
- [Discourse](http://discuss.contentmine.org/)
