workshops/elpub-limassol/README.md, before:

# ELPUB Conference 2017 at Limassol, Cyprus

Date: 6th of June 2017

Location: 21st ELPUB Conference at Limassol, Cyprus

[Website](http://www.cyprusconferences.org/elpub2017/)

## WORKSHOP

### Timetable

**6th of June 2017**

| Timetable     | Agenda       |
|---------------|--------------|
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |

### Introduction into the FutureTDM project

### Introduction into text data mining with ContentMine

In this session, we will give an introduction into text and data mining and the [ContentMine](http://contentmine.org) project. This includes the basic concept of TDM, legal issues, TDM with scholarly literature and use-cases. There will also be time for questions.

### Workshop

In the hands-on workshop, we will give a basic insight on how to use text data mining techniques and the ContentMine software to help librarians with the systematic literature review.

**Requirements**

To be able to let the software run on your own laptop during the workshop, you need a running installation of our ContentMine software on it. To reduce friction for this (bandwith problems at conference venue, operating system issues, etc.), we recommend to install the software in advance and test it shortly (start the virtual machine or use a software package in your command line), if it is running.

Install the needed ContentMine software. You have two options:
	- Use the virtual machine image **ContentMine-2017-05** ([download](http://cm.stefankasberger.at/ContentMine-2017-05.ova)), where everything is running and pre-configured. This is an out of the box solution and is especially recommended for beginners and workshops. 
	- install the software locally]

You find everything you need to know for both of the options **[here](../../installation.md)**.

**And don't forget, bring your own laptop with power supply to the workshop.**

## CONTRIBUTION

ContentMine will be represented by Stefan Kasberger. He conducts a hands-on workshop on text data mining with the ContentMine toolset.

Commit message:

rename libraries tutorial to systematic literature review; add jupyter notebooks zu SLR and p-hacking tutorial; minor changes

workshops/elpub-limassol/README.md, after:

# ELPUB Conference 2017 at Limassol, Cyprus

Date: 6th of June 2017

Location: [21st ELPUB Conference 2017](http://www.cyprusconferences.org/elpub2017/) at Limassol, Cyprus

## WORKSHOP

In the hands-on workshop, we will give a basic insight on how to use text data mining techniques and the ContentMine software to help librarians with the systematic literature review.

[Workshop Page](http://www.cyprusconferences.org/elpub2017/workshops.html)

### Timetable

**6th of June 2017 - Cornaro Hall**

| Timetable     | Agenda       |
|---------------|--------------|
| 9:00 - 9:10 | Introduction FutureTDM |
| 9:10 - 9:50 | Introduction text data mining with ContentMine + Q&A|
| 9:50 - 10:15 | Setup ContentMine software |
| 10:15 - 10:30 | Workshop part I|
| 10:30 - 11:00 | Break |
| 11:00 - 12:10 | Workshop part II|
| 12:10 - 12:25 | Discussion: How to apply TDM for their own research? |
| 12:25 - 12:30 | Conclusion |

### Introduction into the FutureTDM project

### Introduction into text data mining with ContentMine

In this session, we will give an introduction into text and data mining and the [ContentMine](http://contentmine.org) project. This includes the basic concept of TDM, legal issues, TDM with scholarly literature and use-cases. There will also be time for questions.

### Setup ContentMine software

**Requirements**

To be able to let the software run on your own laptop during the workshop, you need a running installation of our ContentMine software on it. To reduce friction for this (bandwith problems at conference venue, operating system issues, etc.), we recommend to install the software in advance and test it shortly (start the virtual machine or use a software package in your command line), if it is running.

Install the needed ContentMine software. You have two options:
	- Use the virtual machine image **ContentMine-2017-05** ([download](http://cm.stefankasberger.at/ContentMine-2017-05.ova)), where everything is running and pre-configured. This is an out of the box solution and is especially recommended for beginners and workshops. 
	- install the software locally]

You find everything you need to know for both of the options **[here](../../installation.md)**.

**And don't forget, bring your own laptop with power supply to the workshop.**

### Do text data mining

For this, we go through the **[Librarians tutorial](../../tutorials/librarians/)**.

## CONTRIBUTION

ContentMine will be represented by Stefan Kasberger. He conducts a hands-on workshop on text data mining with the ContentMine toolset.
